---
layout: page
title: Getting started with Rplexus.net
permalink: /getting-started/
---

## Overview
Rplexus is based on a very simple philosophy. You can create your client easy 4 steps below.

Rplexus is a central server between devices. In Rplexus terminology, each client is called Node and they connect to the server with a small application. So multiple client software can run on one device.

**Node = Client**

Each Node and its data are defined by the user from the rplexus.net web interface. In Rplexus terminology, each data is called Task and carries data such as variable_name = "value". You can write the your own codes or use the libraries developed by the community for getting data from sensors.

**Task = Variable Name**

The Rplexus server redirects data from clients to the user's web interface and other shared clients. With shared node tasks you can establish a network.

You can configure this network to set up your smart home system and manage your network from any web browser.

## Step 1) Sign up rplexus.net
You can create an account on [https://rplexus.net/user/signup](https://rplexus.net/user/signup){:target="_blank"}

## Step 2) Create your first Node
You will see "Create Node" section when you login, just write your new node name and create one. [https://rplexus.net/user/login](https://rplexus.net/user/login){:target="_blank"}

## Step 3) Client Installation
Client application is simple Python script and tested only Linux systems for now. [https://github.com/alierkanimrek/rpct](https://github.com/alierkanimrek/rpct){:target="_blank"}

You have two options for download on command line;
```bash
wget https://github.com/alierkanimrek/rpct/archive/master.zip
unzip master.zip
```
or
```bash
git clone https://github.com/alierkanimrek/rpct.git
```
### Requirements
Client application needs **Python version 3** and **Tornado library version 6**. 

You can check Python version.
```bash
python3 -V
```
Then install Tornado lib.
```bash
pip3 install tornado
```

## Step 4) Client Configuration
Configuration file **config.conf** sholud be placed same directory with client.py. You can use config.tmp for template.
```bash
mv config.tmp config.conf
```
You must specify some configuration variables below.
* **run_path** Is application path like /home/someone/rpct
* **name** that under [USER] section is your rplexus.net username. (Step 1)
* **name** that under [NODE] section is your node name you created on rplexus.net. (Step 2)
* **auth_code** value is generated by rplexus server. You can get it from your e-mail.

### Getting auth_code
**Login** your account on rplexus.net then open menu top-right corner and go to **user settings**. You will see **client code sending button**. Information mail will send to your registered e-mail in minutes. **You should check spam folder** in your email account.

Then check your configuration.
```bash
python3 client.py
```
If you see **Authentication successful** message configuration is OK. (Press Ctrl+C for stop client)

Login to rplexus.net now and check if the node appears online.


# Customize Your Client
Frist, clone application. (client.py can be overwritten in the next update.)
```bash
cp client.py myclient.py
```

## Client application structure
Client application is a Python script and it is enough to have a Beginner level knowledge about Python for editing. [This page](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_syntax.asp){:target="_blank"} helps if new on Python.

### Methods
* **prepare** : Calls on app starting
* **wheel** : on after authentication succesful for one time
* **ready** : on before awake
* **pre_update** : on before every data send
* **post_update** : on after every data send

### Tasks
Tasks are data variable names. For example, if you have temprature sensor you need as "temp" and "fc" tasks. 

**You must define tasks on rplexus.net before use on client application.** Login on rplexus.net and click your node, you will see tasks link bottom the page. (If you change tasks you must update them in your client)

### Assign Task Data
Suppose we have two tasks as "rnd1" and "rnd2" your client app looks like;

```python
    def prepare(self):
        self.my_random_data_1 = self.taskAlias("rnd1")
        self.my_random_data_2 = self.taskAlias("rnd2")
```
```python
    async def pre_update(self):
        self.my_random_data_1.data = random.randrange(10)
        self.my_random_data_1.data = random.randrange(100)
```

# View Your Tasks
Login to rplexus.net and click plus sign in "Control Pages" section then write view name. You can visualize your data with Widgets. Add a new widget with a plus sign on the View page and see your data. The widget is set as the "Default" Widget by default. Different Widgets offer customized visualization options that developed by the community.


# Advanced Topics
You have seen the basics, after which you can set up your own private smart network based according to your skill in obtaining and processing data. The best way to do this is to analyze examples at various levels. You should follow the titles on the homepage.
